
Changes from Original Design and Initial Concept.
* Split up controller.
  In our initial design, as evident in our class and component diagrams, we had
  only one controller - the WeatherController - which was responsible for all
  of the fetching of locations/stations, weather data and predictions, and then
  passing the data to the appropriate view.
  Although this worked fine, it cluttered up the controller, and from the
  feedback of our tutors, we decided to split up the controller into several
  controllers, each responsible for one set of tasks.
  Currently, our weather predictor rails app has four controllers:
    DataController - responsible for fetching weather data from a location and
      fetching locations from a postcode.
    LocationController - responsible for fetching all locations.
    PredictionController - responsible for fetching weather predictions.
    WeatherController - serving as a controller for the homepage HTML view.
  Now, each controller is given a more specific role in the Rails application.
  It has made it easier to manage and maintain the code during development; we
  know which controller needs to be debugged when we come up against an error,
  and each controller was small enough for us to easily fix.
* Sourcing our dataset from only the latest 3 hours for predictions.
  It was initially (during design) thought that our predictions will be
  performed by performing regressions on the entire dataset stored in the
  database of our app. This, however, made our predictions very inaccurate, as
  data long in the past had very little relevance to the weather in the future.
  This became apparent, when our weather predictions for wind direction always
  returned east despite the wind blowing approximately north for the past 12
  hours, because we had accumulated a lot of past data that had the wind
  blowing east. As a result, we rectified this issue by limiting the dataset
  used by predictions to the past 3 hours, resulting in much more accurate
  predictions.
* Normalising origin unix time to 1 for regressions.
  The first implementation of our weather predictor saw regressions performed
  with the unix time of the data sets. However, it became an issue because the
  unix time representation of recent dates were very large numbers while the
  data being regressed against (rainfall, temperature, wind speed and wind
  direction) were relatively small values. It diminished the accuracy of our
  predictions, due to a combination of rounding errors and lack of precision
  in floating-point numbers.
  As a result of this, it was decided to normalise the unix time of the first
  data set under analysis to 1 and have other data sets' unix time set relative
  to the first data set when performing a regression. This further improved our
  predictions.

* Minor Changes to Design
 - Changed name of "Fio_parser.get_next_key" to "Fio_parser.get_api_key" in 
    order to reflect a more general purpose the function provides.
 - Added Location.NEAR_DISTANCE, this defines what is meant by a 
    "nearby station" in metres.
 - Added Location.get_locs_json, this returns a json representation of the given
    locations, including all stored measurements for that location on the given date

 A number of changes were made in order to calculate the distances between two long/lat pairs using the Haversine formula.
 - Added Location.RAD_PER_DEG, a precalculated constant for the number of 
    radians in a degree
 - Added Location.Rmiles, the radius of earth in miles
 - Added Location.Rkm, the radius of earth in kilometres
 - Added Location.Rmeters, the radius of the earth in metres

 - Added Location.distances, stores distance pairs to save on computation.

 - Added Location.haversine_distance, calculates the haversine distance between 
   two points
 - Added Location.find_sorted_weather_stations, returns a list of nearby 
   locations sorted by nearest to given lat/long pair
 - Added Location.get_nearest_locs, gets the nearest locations to the given 
   lat/long pair
 - Added Location.test_haversine, unit test
 - Added Location.get_lat_long, returns the lat/long pair for a given postcode.

 - Added Observation.MEASUREMENTS, gives the set of measurements to try to 
   record data for.
 - Added Observation.aggregate, joins the set of all nearby location prediction 
   data together to form a single prediction for the point at the origin of all 
   the distances
 - Added Observation.RECORDS_PER_DAY, gives the number of records to predict on 
   for a full day, this was cut down to 3 hours only, the value does not 
   currently represent the number of records per day, however in the interest of 
   a simple integer constant, rather than including a float multiplier and 
   integer conversion, this has been left as is.
 - Changed Observation.get_data to Observation.get_measurements in the interest 
   of a more descriptive function name
 - Added Prediction.set_current_weather, sets the prediction for "0" time from 
   now to the latest measurement
 - Removed Prediction.get_data, this seemed redundant.

 - Modified interface for Rain.Predict, Temperature.predict and Wind.predict, to 
   include the names for each of the requested time points.

 - Modified interface for Wind.Predict, m was added, the prediction type being 
   aimed for, this basically increases coupling in the interest of cleaner 
   interface and faster performance, it, and the storage of the wind values 
   calculated, could be removed, however we thought performance and code 
   generality was more important in this case than the added coupling.

Difficulties and Troubles Faced in Development
* Special cases.
  During development, there were many special cases that were not considered
  during design - both logical and technical - and had to be thought and
  decided on during development. For example, should a regression be done on a
  time series against a data of 0's, the standard method of calculating of r
  squared would yield infinity. This could only be resolved by adding
  special-case logic to the originally designed and conceived methods and
  classes.
  In more complex cases, there were special cases to one special case, which
  further complicating the coding, and sometimes affected our initial design.
  In other scenarios, one special case needed to be handled differently for
  different situations.
* Logical errors.
  Fixing logical errors in our application was, by far, the hardest; logic
  errors do not indicate what or where in our application has gone wrong.
  Debugging them would require us to go through almost the entire web
  application (from model, controller to view) to find the one bug that caused
  incorrect results. Fortunately, for all the logical errors we found, they
  have been fixed.
* Error handling.
  During design, we did not consider error handling - mostly runtime errors.
  This included divide by zeros and null data sets. Most of these could be
  fixed by writing additional special cases, as mentioned above; however, some
  of these errors must be handled appropriately with begin/rescue (try/catch)
  block.

Importance of Design Before Development
  Design has significantly saved a lot of time and effort required in
  development. The design indicated to us the structure and interaction of our
  application, so we knew how implement the web application.
  For example, with the class diagrams, we knew what classes had to be
  implemented, and what methods had to be coded in them. The sequence diagram
  showed how and which classes interacted with each other, hence helping us
  develop a mutual data format shared between classes and methods.
  However, I must mention that design (at least in our designs), it did very
  little help to coding the logic inside our application. For example, in our
  designs, we mentioned we call a method predict() which calls other methods in
  other classes, but it doesn't mention how to implement the logic behind
  predictions or even regressions. Design also doesn't really account for
  special cases and logical errors. I suppose a design would be best to
  incorporate to some degree of logic.
  Personally, I think our design could have been improved to further decrease
  coupling and increase cohesion (which we have done during development for the
  controllers, but more could be done).